feat: added section for multipart/form-data and binary (#735)
appsmithorg/appsmith-docs: website/docs/learning-and-resources/how-to-guides/how-to-submit-multipart-and-binary-form-data.md

---

> description: Guide for submitting multipart/form-data and binary file data via Appsmith

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Guide for submitting body data with API requests on Appsmith
```

sidebar_position: 17
---

> # Submitting Multipart and Binary form Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Send Body Data with API Requests```

> Appsmith supports sending file data in API queries via `multipart/form-data` encoding, which is commonly expected by API endpoints that handle file uploads. Multipart requests can include several different types of data within them, such as a file along with some other related metadata. The Appsmith REST API interface can also handle submitting raw binary file data.

Reviewer: Put this under the Multipart form data section. Here write a general intro about send body data with API requests.

> ## Multipart form data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Multipart/form-data
```

![Use multipart form encoding in your API request](/img/multipart_editor.png)

To submit a file as a multipart input, use a [Filepicker widget](/reference/widgets/filepicker) to upload a file to your application. Once it has been uploaded, you can bind `{{ FilePicker1.files[0] }}` as a value in your API's multipart request body. Be sure to select "File" in the datatype dropdown. If you would like to submit multiple files in the same request key, you can alternatively use `{{ FilePicker1.files }}` to include the entire contents of the Filepicker widget.

The file data from the Filepicker widget can be in any data format (base64 or binary) according to the requirements of the endpoint that you're connecting to.

You can also pass plain text values in your multipart request by selecting the "Text" option in the datatype dropdown. If you wish to pass multiple plain text values under the same key, be sure to use the "Array" option instead.

![Use "File," "Array," and "Text" data types in your multipart-encoded request.](/img/multipart_fields.png)

```javascript
// type: Text
{{ Text1.text }}
```

```javascript
// type: Array
{{[ Text1.text, Text2.text, "hello, world"]}}
```

> ## Raw body binary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Raw data
```
